# Files, Directories, and vi

## Important commands in this unit

* ls
* touch
* nano
* vi
* more
* less
* cat
* head
* tail
* pwd
* cd
* mkdir
* rmdir
* rm
* mv (used for renaming as well as moving)

In Windows we know what a file is.  It is a named area on the disk that holds some type of data

In Unix the meaning of "file" is broader. The popular statement is "In Linux everything is a file."

* "Regular File" is a file in the Linux sense of the word
* "Directory" is the same as a Folder in Windows.  Directories are also files.
* Devices attached to the system are treated as files. :floppy_disk:
* Running processes are also files
* Other stuff are files.  **Everything is a file**

## File names

* Case sensitive
* If in doubt, stay with letters, digits, dash, and underscore.
  * Some special characters have special meanings, so avoid special characters unless you know what you are doing.
* Blanks in file names are allowed, but :rage: ***Blanks in file names are evil.*** :rage:  But sometimes you encounter them.
  * Put quotes around them (generally, 'single quotes' or apostrophes.)
  * Escape the blank space with a slash
  * If you have to type the command, use the tab key use "file completion"

### Types of files

Symbol	|Meaning
:---:|---
-	|Regular file
d	|Directory
l	|Link
c	|Special file
s	|Socket
p	|Named pipe
b	|Block device

### Extensions

* Extensions are added to file names to indicate the type of data in the file
* Usually a period followed by a few letters
  * moby.txt
  * ada.jpg
  * index.html
* Linux itself does not care about extensions
  * But some applications running on Linux might care

## Regular Files

## Using tail with log files